# 1.3 - Understand Security Concepts Relevant to Cloud Computing

## Cryptography and Key Management

- [Cryptography](../../Definitions/C.md#cryptography)

Some considerations.
- Where are the keys stored?
- Who generates and manages the keys?
- Should a key management service be used?

Different types of encryptions
- [Symmetric encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symmetric-key_algorithm)
- [Assymetric encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography)

## Identity and Access Control

There are multiple types of access control.
- Physical access
- User access
- Privilege access
- Service access

## Data and Media Sanitization

Types of sanitization techniques include the following.
- Overwriting
- [Cryptographic erasure](../../Definitions/C.md#cryptographic-erasure)

## Netowrk Security

- Network security groups
- [Zero trust](../../Definitions/Z.md#zero-trust) network (formal definition can be found in [NIST SP 800-207](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/207/final))
- Ingress and egress monitoring

## Virtualization Security

- Hypervisor type 1 is generally faster and more secure but requires special skills to set up and maintain.
- Hypervisor type 2 run on top of a host operating system like Windows or macOS. These are easier to set up, typically requiring only the skills needed to install the virtualization application.
- [Virtual machine escape](../../Definitions/V.md#virtual-machine-escape)

Other considerations
- Container security
- Ephemeral computing
- [Serverless technology](../../Definitions/S.md#serverless-computing)

## Common Threats

[The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/) publishes a list of common cloud threats known as the Egregious Eleven.

## Security Hygiene

- Patching
- Baselining
